Welcome back.
In a previous section we discuss about collections.
We looked at the different basic interfaces and the different implementations for those interfaces which
are present in the collections classes.
What we are looking at in this specific section are advanced collections.
So what are these advanced collections and how are they different from the synchronized collections
that were available in earlier question to Joe.
So let's get started with synchronized and concurrent collections What is the difference between them.
Basically all of the synchronized connections are implemented using what they're using synchronized
keyword.
So if I bring up the vector class for example what does it use.
A lot of synchronized.
So you have synchronized method.
So you can see a lot of synchronized methods inside the vector class.
David Vitter classes achieves multi-threading capabilities and the fact that it's thread safe is through
this thing carbonized method.
The thing about synchronized method is the thing that one thread is executing this method.
So when a threat is exuding this method no other thread is allowed to be executing any other synchronized
method in this space with us.
So if I have 100 threads which want to execute the method on this object they have to wait until when.
Until this method completes execution.
So once this method completes execution then under threat will be able to execute one of the sync amazement.
Well let's say this was the method it's the second third Stubb's executing one.
The second thread stops exuding this method.
All the other threads have to wait until the.
This particular thread comes out of this particular method.
So that's a very very severe restriction.
And that's why synchronization using the synchronized keyword comes with a lot of cost.
It's thread safe but the programs become really slow because of waiting waiting waiting all threats
are waiting for getting access to the specific methods that they want to execute.
As we discussed only one thread can be executing any of these increases the code at a given point in
time.
So this is a severe restriction on the concurrency of threat thereby affecting the performance of application.
So one the Java 5 synchronized collections the cache table Waechter they use this approach of using
synchronized keyword.
However both jobs are fine.
There are new approaches to synchronization so there are new things.
New collections that are bringing new synchronization approaches other than the synchronized keyword.
These collections are typically called concurrent collections.
We would discuss them very soon.
Let's start with what are the different types of collection that are present.
There are different approaches to concurrent collections.
One is called a copy on write.
The other one is compared to app and the other one is locks as well.
We'll discuss each one of these approaches enough.
The first approach we want to discuss is to copy on write concurrent collections approach.
How does the copy and right approach work.
So let's take an example to what we're looking at is copy on write aerialist class.
So in the copy on write release class we want to look at the method and if you look at the Add method
you'll see that we're getting a lock.
So we're getting a lock to this particular object.
And what are we doing.
We are copying the elements of the entry into a new area and returning it back.
So what we are doing in here is the approach which is used in the copy on write concurrent collections
is all values are stored in the internal immutable area.
So the area the data store is immutable.
That means it cannot be changed the values of it cannot be changed.
So whenever there is a value change in the collection.
For example when a new element is added what we do is we get a locked loop and we kind of copy and create
a new entry.
So we come up we create a new area and we use a new area.
From then on the advantage of this is that the read operations does not need to be synchronized.
So the write operation takes a lot of time because you have to copy the entire array.
But when I'm doing a read to it when I'm doing for example or get on the thing so I'm going to the get
method all they're doing is all that we are doing is returning the element back so we are looking at
the array everything the element back.
We're not having any synchronization code in here.
So if you look at the get method here get that get index What does it do.
It just gets to this method and there is no synchronisation at all.
So the Get can happen without any synchronization so multiple methods can be exiting to get method at
the same time only constraints are on the modifying kind of method.
So the add method to there is a lock and only a method which has that lock so only the object which
has that blog will be able to go in and execute this code.
So I know you want to modify then you would need to get a lock.
But if you want to read an element you don't really need to get the lock so that the copy on write concurrent
collection approach there are copy and write the released copy on write Aricept.
These use this specific implementation approach.
These are very useful in approaches where there are very few rights and a lot of read.
So let's say you have a situation where the underlying data structure does not change a lot.
I mean very few modifications.
But let's say there are a lot of three operations.
So a lot of get operations on a specific collection in that kind of scenario.
Copy and write concurrent collections approach would work perfectly fine.
And you would I would recommend to use copy and write a list and copy and write a recipe in those kind
of situations.
A good example of that would be the subject observed were scenarios in this object up those scenarios.
The object Abdulla's would really change right to if let's say I have hundred observers maybe one or
two might be added or so but you'd want to loop for observers each time there is a notification that
needs to be sent.
So if I have 100 notifications that needs to be sent to all these observers I can read them very fast.
However since the observers are not really modified very frequently using a copy on write concurrent
collections approach like one of the collections we use that approach would be a great idea.